README_osc.md, before:

The `keyutils.osc` module provides a
[python-keyring](https://github.com/jaraco/keyring) [1] backend that can  
be used by
[osc](https://github.com/openSUSE/osc) for managing the credentials
in the kernel keyring.


What
----
In order to authenticate with the OBS API, credentials (a username and  
a password) are required. That is, when interacting with the OBS API, osc  
has to be aware of these credentials. For this, osc provides several  
alternatives for storing and retrieving the credentials (this is a  
per apiurl setting). For instance, it can make use of a python-keyring  
backend, it can store the credentials in the config file (in plaintext),  
or it can always ask (on each osc invocation) for the credentials again  
etc.

The `keyutils.osc` module provides yet another python-keyring backend  
(`keyutils.osc.OscKernelKeyringBackend`), which can be used by osc for  
storing and retrieving the user's credentials. This backend uses the  
kernel keyring for storing and retrieving the credentials (in plaintext).  
More precisely, it stores and retrieves the credentials from a "sub" keyring  
of the session keyring.

If osc is configured to use this backend, the basic workflow looks like this  
(assuming that the credentials are not yet stored in the kernel keyring).

```
marcus@linux:~> osc ls -v home:Marcus_H python-keyring-keyutils python-keyring-keyutils.spec
Password required for user Marcus_H (apiurl: api.opensuse.org)
Password: 
e4f007089f4d17f2a035105bcc9ac371       4       947 Jul 10 20:17 python-keyring-keyutils.spec
marcus@linux:~> 
```

```
marcus@linux:~> osc ls -v home:Marcus_H python-keyring-keyutils python-keyring-keyutils.changes
0decb70f9081a9b1d661886e442e3051       4       164 Jul 10 20:08 python-keyring-keyutils.changes
marcus@linux:~>
```

That is, on the first invocation, osc prompts for the password and stores it  
in the kernel keyring. On the second invocation, osc directly retrieves the  
password from the kernel keyring. More precisely, osc will only prompt for  
the password again, if the corresponding key was removed from the kernel  
keyring (for whatever reason).


Security Considerations
-----------------------
Since the `keyutils.osc.OscKernelKeyringBackend` class is a subclass of the  
`keyutils.keys.KeyutilsKeyringBackend` class, all security considerations  
from the
[README.md](https://github.com/marcus-h/python-keyring-keyutils/blob/master/README.md) [3]
also apply. Additionally, it is important to note that osc itself  
uses a cookie that can be used for authentication. That is, even if  
no/arbitrary credentials are stored in the kernel keyring, it is possible to  
authenticate via the cookie (the cookie is stored in the `~/.osc\_cookiejar`  
file).


Usage
-----
After the installation of this backend, osc can be instructed to use it  
for storing the credentials for a specific apiurl in the kernel keyring.  
When configuring the credentials for a new apiurl, osc offers several  
methods for storing the credentials. For instance,

```
marcus@linux:~> osc -A https://api.opensuse.org ls home:Marcus_H

the apiurl 'https://api.opensuse.org' does not exist in the config file. Please enter
your credentials for this apiurl.

Username: Marcus_H
Password:
1) backend KeyutilsKeyringBackend (Backend provided by python-keyring)
2) chainer ChainerBackend (Backend provided by python-keyring)
3) fail Keyring (Backend provided by python-keyring)
4) osc OscKernelKeyringBackend (Backend provided by python-keyring)
5) Config file credentials manager (Store the credentials in the config file (plain text))
6) Obfuscated Config file credentials manager (Store the credentials in the config file (obfuscated))
7) Transient password store (Do not store the password and always ask for the password)
Select credentials manager: 4

<command output omitted>

marcus@linux:~>
```

That is, the `OscKernelKeyringBackend` is selected by choosing option 4.

Alternatively, osc can also be configured to use the `OscKernelKeyringBackend`  
for an existing apiurl. In this case, the credentials are removed from the  
existing backend and are stored in the kernel keyring. For instance,

```
marcus@linux:~> osc config https://api.opensuse.org --change-password
Password:
1) backend KeyutilsKeyringBackend (Backend provided by python-keyring)
2) chainer ChainerBackend (Backend provided by python-keyring)
3) fail Keyring (Backend provided by python-keyring)
4) osc OscKernelKeyringBackend (Backend provided by python-keyring)
5) Config file credentials manager (Store the credentials in the config file (plain text))
6) Obfuscated Config file credentials manager (Store the credentials in the config file (obfuscated))
7) Transient password store (Do not store the password and always ask for the password)
Select credentials manager: 4
Password has been changed.
marcus@linux:~>
```

As above, the `OscKernelKeyringBackend` is selected by choosing option 4.

Note that the password has to be entered again. Actually, in order to  
simply change the password store (without entering the password again),  
it should be sufficient to run  
`osc config https://api.opensuse.org pass --select-password-store` but  
there is currently a bug in osc.

By default (and there is currently no way to configure this), the credentials  
are stored in the `osc_credentials` keyring, which is a "sub" keyring of the  
session keyring. For instance, the session keyring can be inspected via the  
keyctl tool, which is part of the
[C keyutils library](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/dhowells/keyutils.git) [4],
as follows

```
marcus@linux:~> keyctl show @s
Keyring
 984469378 --alswrv   1000   100  keyring: _ses
 847671581 --alswrv   1000 65534   \_ keyring: _uid.1000
 228550152 --alswrv   1000   100   \_ keyring: osc_credentials
 689394544 --alswrv   1000   100       \_ user: api.opensuse.org:Marcus_H
marcus@linux:~>
```

The password of the user Marcus\_H for the api.opensuse.org host can be  
retrieved via

```
marcus@linux:~> keyctl print 689394544
mySecretPassword
marcus@linux:~>
```

Moreover, it is also possible to "remove" the password from the keyring.  
Afterwards, a subsequent osc invocation asks for the password and stores  
it in the `osc_credentials` keyring again.

```
marcus@linux:~> keyctl unlink 689394544
1 links removed
marcus@linux:~> keyctl show @s
Keyring
 984469378 --alswrv   1000   100  keyring: _ses
 847671581 --alswrv   1000 65534   \_ keyring: _uid.1000
 228550152 --alswrv   1000   100   \_ keyring: osc_credentials
marcus@linux:~> osc ls home:Marcus_H
Password required for user Marcus_H (apiurl: api.opensuse.org)
Password:

<command output omitted>

marcus@linux:~> keyctl show @s
Keyring
 984469378 --alswrv   1000   100  keyring: _ses
 847671581 --alswrv   1000 65534   \_ keyring: _uid.1000
 228550152 --alswrv   1000   100   \_ keyring: osc_credentials
 203276964 --alswrv   1000   100       \_ user: api.opensuse.org:Marcus_H
marcus@linux:~>
```

Note: the "persistence" of the session keyring is configuration dependent.  
For instance, xdm can be configured to create a new session keyring during  
the log in, which is revoked during the log out (see also the
[README.md](https://github.com/marcus-h/python-keyring-keyutils/blob/master/README.md) [3]
file).


References
----------
[1] https://github.com/jaraco/keyring  
[2] https://github.com/openSUSE/osc  
[3] https://github.com/marcus-h/python-keyring-keyutils/blob/master/README.md  
[4] https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/dhowells/keyutils.git

Commit message:

Use --select-password-store in the README_osc.md file
Since the osc 0.174.0 release, the --select-password-store option
can be used for changing the password store (instead of using the
workaround via --change-password).

README_osc.md, after:

The `keyutils.osc` module provides a
[python-keyring](https://github.com/jaraco/keyring) [1] backend that can  
be used by
[osc](https://github.com/openSUSE/osc) for managing the credentials
in the kernel keyring.


What
----
In order to authenticate with the OBS API, credentials (a username and  
a password) are required. That is, when interacting with the OBS API, osc  
has to be aware of these credentials. For this, osc provides several  
alternatives for storing and retrieving the credentials (this is a  
per apiurl setting). For instance, it can make use of a python-keyring  
backend, it can store the credentials in the config file (in plaintext),  
or it can always ask (on each osc invocation) for the credentials again  
etc.

The `keyutils.osc` module provides yet another python-keyring backend  
(`keyutils.osc.OscKernelKeyringBackend`), which can be used by osc for  
storing and retrieving the user's credentials. This backend uses the  
kernel keyring for storing and retrieving the credentials (in plaintext).  
More precisely, it stores and retrieves the credentials from a "sub" keyring  
of the session keyring.

If osc is configured to use this backend, the basic workflow looks like this  
(assuming that the credentials are not yet stored in the kernel keyring).

```
marcus@linux:~> osc ls -v home:Marcus_H python-keyring-keyutils python-keyring-keyutils.spec
Password required for user Marcus_H (apiurl: api.opensuse.org)
Password: 
e4f007089f4d17f2a035105bcc9ac371       4       947 Jul 10 20:17 python-keyring-keyutils.spec
marcus@linux:~> 
```

```
marcus@linux:~> osc ls -v home:Marcus_H python-keyring-keyutils python-keyring-keyutils.changes
0decb70f9081a9b1d661886e442e3051       4       164 Jul 10 20:08 python-keyring-keyutils.changes
marcus@linux:~>
```

That is, on the first invocation, osc prompts for the password and stores it  
in the kernel keyring. On the second invocation, osc directly retrieves the  
password from the kernel keyring. More precisely, osc will only prompt for  
the password again, if the corresponding key was removed from the kernel  
keyring (for whatever reason).


Security Considerations
-----------------------
Since the `keyutils.osc.OscKernelKeyringBackend` class is a subclass of the  
`keyutils.keys.KeyutilsKeyringBackend` class, all security considerations  
from the
[README.md](https://github.com/marcus-h/python-keyring-keyutils/blob/master/README.md) [3]
also apply. Additionally, it is important to note that osc itself  
uses a cookie that can be used for authentication. That is, even if  
no/arbitrary credentials are stored in the kernel keyring, it is possible to  
authenticate via the cookie (the cookie is stored in the `~/.osc\_cookiejar`  
file).


Usage
-----
After the installation of this backend, osc can be instructed to use it  
for storing the credentials for a specific apiurl in the kernel keyring.  
When configuring the credentials for a new apiurl, osc offers several  
methods for storing the credentials. For instance,

```
marcus@linux:~> osc -A https://api.opensuse.org ls home:Marcus_H

the apiurl 'https://api.opensuse.org' does not exist in the config file. Please enter
your credentials for this apiurl.

Username: Marcus_H
Password:
1) backend KeyutilsKeyringBackend (Backend provided by python-keyring)
2) chainer ChainerBackend (Backend provided by python-keyring)
3) fail Keyring (Backend provided by python-keyring)
4) osc OscKernelKeyringBackend (Backend provided by python-keyring)
5) Config file credentials manager (Store the credentials in the config file (plain text))
6) Obfuscated Config file credentials manager (Store the credentials in the config file (obfuscated))
7) Transient password store (Do not store the password and always ask for the password)
Select credentials manager: 4

<command output omitted>

marcus@linux:~>
```

That is, the `OscKernelKeyringBackend` is selected by choosing option 4.

Alternatively, osc can also be configured to use the `OscKernelKeyringBackend`  
for an existing apiurl. In this case, the credentials are removed from the  
existing backend and are stored in the kernel keyring. For instance,

```
marcus@linux:~> osc config https://api.opensuse.org --select-password-store
1) backend KeyutilsKeyringBackend (Backend provided by python-keyring)
2) chainer ChainerBackend (Backend provided by python-keyring)
3) fail Keyring (Backend provided by python-keyring)
4) osc OscKernelKeyringBackend (Backend provided by python-keyring)
5) Config file credentials manager (Store the credentials in the config file (plain text))
6) Obfuscated Config file credentials manager (Store the credentials in the config file (obfuscated))
7) Transient password store (Do not store the password and always ask for the password)
Select credentials manager: 4
Password has been changed.
marcus@linux:~>
```

As above, the `OscKernelKeyringBackend` is selected by choosing option 4.

Note: the --select-password-store option only works with osc >= 0.174.0 (in  
case of an older osc version,
`osc config https://api.opensuse.org --change-password`  
can be used to achieve the same (but it prompts for the password)).

By default (and there is currently no way to configure this), the credentials  
are stored in the `osc_credentials` keyring, which is a "sub" keyring of the  
session keyring. For instance, the session keyring can be inspected via the  
keyctl tool, which is part of the
[C keyutils library](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/dhowells/keyutils.git) [4],
as follows

```
marcus@linux:~> keyctl show @s
Keyring
 984469378 --alswrv   1000   100  keyring: _ses
 847671581 --alswrv   1000 65534   \_ keyring: _uid.1000
 228550152 --alswrv   1000   100   \_ keyring: osc_credentials
 689394544 --alswrv   1000   100       \_ user: api.opensuse.org:Marcus_H
marcus@linux:~>
```

The password of the user Marcus\_H for the api.opensuse.org host can be  
retrieved via

```
marcus@linux:~> keyctl print 689394544
mySecretPassword
marcus@linux:~>
```

Moreover, it is also possible to "remove" the password from the keyring.  
Afterwards, a subsequent osc invocation asks for the password and stores  
it in the `osc_credentials` keyring again.

```
marcus@linux:~> keyctl unlink 689394544
1 links removed
marcus@linux:~> keyctl show @s
Keyring
 984469378 --alswrv   1000   100  keyring: _ses
 847671581 --alswrv   1000 65534   \_ keyring: _uid.1000
 228550152 --alswrv   1000   100   \_ keyring: osc_credentials
marcus@linux:~> osc ls home:Marcus_H
Password required for user Marcus_H (apiurl: api.opensuse.org)
Password:

<command output omitted>

marcus@linux:~> keyctl show @s
Keyring
 984469378 --alswrv   1000   100  keyring: _ses
 847671581 --alswrv   1000 65534   \_ keyring: _uid.1000
 228550152 --alswrv   1000   100   \_ keyring: osc_credentials
 203276964 --alswrv   1000   100       \_ user: api.opensuse.org:Marcus_H
marcus@linux:~>
```

Note: the "persistence" of the session keyring is configuration dependent.  
For instance, xdm can be configured to create a new session keyring during  
the log in, which is revoked during the log out (see also the
[README.md](https://github.com/marcus-h/python-keyring-keyutils/blob/master/README.md) [3]
file).


References
----------
[1] https://github.com/jaraco/keyring  
[2] https://github.com/openSUSE/osc  
[3] https://github.com/marcus-h/python-keyring-keyutils/blob/master/README.md  
[4] https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/dhowells/keyutils.git
